- [Instructor] Most batch jobs can be executed
using a single thread.
However, when performance issues arise,
you may need to consider building a multi-threaded job
that performs processing over multiple threads.
Switching to a multi-threaded job should not be taken likely
because it comes with trade-offs.
Multi-threaded jobs inherently lose the capability
to restart.
So let's assume we did our due diligence
and determined that multi-threading is required.
Let's take a look at how it's put in place.
I've added a couple things within the working files
for this lesson to help us be successful.
So the first thing that I've added is
within our TrackedOrderItemProcessor.
I am now outputting the thread that is being used
by this processor and that's going to help us keep track
of the multi-threaded nature of the job.
Now the other thing that we needed
to put in place was a different item writer.
The item writer that we were using,
the JSON file ItemWriter was not multi-threaded.
So I added the JdbcBatchItemWriter
and you're familiar with this.
We've used it in the past with the named parameters
in order to insert records into our database.
This ItemWriter is multi-threaded so it can be used
in multi-threaded jobs and if you want to see the sequel,
you can navigate up to the top of the class
and in the INSERT_ORDER_SQL,
here you see the insert statement.
So we're using the named parameters
and then really the only difference with this version
of the sequel statement is
that we've added the tracking_number
and the free_shipping columns
and their associated parameters.
So that was what was put in place
and now we're going to begin the configuration
of that multi-threaded step.
So we're going to make our ChunkBasedStep multi-threaded.
In order to do that, we need a task executor.
So we're going to declare a Bean.
And the Bean is going to be of type TaskExecutor
and this is essentially configuring our thread pool.
I'll name the method for the Bean taskExecutor
and then inside the body of this method,
I'm going to create a ThreadPoolTaskExecutor
and I'll name that object executor
and then we'll just use the new operator
and the constructor to create it.
Now here, we can specify some configuration
for our ThreadPoolTaskExecutor.
So here we can set the corePoolSize
which is going to be the amount of cores
that we have to work with.
In this case, I'm just going to go ahead
and set it to two
and then from there, we're going to go ahead
and specify the MaxPoolSize
for the among of threads in the pool
and I'm going to set that to 10.
And then finally, we just return the executor
from this method and then we need
to import the taskExecutor type.
Okay, so we have that Bean configured
and then you're going to see how simple it is
to make our ChunkBasedStep multi-threaded.
Simply add the taskExecutor method at the bottom
of our configuration and then we can go ahead
and call our taskExecutor method
which will cause the Bean to be injected
and at this point, we are set up
for a multi-threaded step to be executed.
So multiple threads are going to execute our ChunckBasedStep
now one thing I did mention at the beginning of the course
is that when we use a multi-theaded step,
we are no longer able to restart the job
in a successful state.
So we're going to configure our itemReader not
to track the state of the job.
So on the configuration for the JdbcPagingItemReader,
you're going to find a saveState boolean
and we need to go ahead and set this to false
in order for our job to successfully complete.
Okay so everything is in place for our job.
Now the one thing we'll need to do is set up the table
that we're going to write to.
So here you see we're writing
to the TRACKED_ORDER table and it's going
to expect these different columns within that table.
Now if you navigate to the data directory included
with the files for the course,
you're going to see the TRACED_ORDER.sql file
and this contains the DDL in order to create that table.
So just go ahead, copy it and then you can navigate
to the MySQL Workbench
and just go ahead paste in that script and execute it
and that should cause the table to be created.
Let's just verify that.
So there we see our TRACKED_ORDER table
and we see the columns within it.
Okay, we're set up for a run.
Let's head to the terminal
and then we're going to go ahead, kick off our script
and that should package our job into a jar
and then it's going to launch it.
And we'll keep a close eye on the console output
so that we can see the multiple threads.
There it looks like it's kicking off.
Okay, so you'll notice that, within our processor,
it's alternating between these two threads
that are being used to execute the processor logic
in parallel on these two different threads.
So we were able to successfully set up a job
that leveraged multiple threads and we were able
to ensure the thread safety of our job
by picking the appropriate readers and writers.
So it's really important when you're working
with multi-threaded jobs
that you consult the Javadocs for each of the readers
and writers you're working with.
It will stay explicitly within them
whether or not their thread is safe
and you want to be sure
to choose those threads safe implementations.